




               >> In this video we'll take a look at the basic data model

               building blocks.  The most basic data model building block

               is the entity which is an object of interest to the end

               user.  Each entity describes a particular real world

               object.  For example, a data model for a school would

               surely include entities such as teachers and students.

               Similarly, a data model for an art gallery would include

               painters and the paintings created by those painters.  An

               entity is described by its attributes.  For example, a

               teacher might be described through the attributes such as

               a title, a first name, a last name, and a degree.  A

               painter might be described through a first name, a last

               name, and a primary painting medium such as acrylic or

               oil.  Another important data model building block is the

               relationship which is an association among entities.

               Relationships are classified by type.  One to many, many

               to many, and one to one.  For example, note the one to

               many relationship between painter and paintings in which a

               painter paints many paintings but each painting is painted

               by only one painter.  Incidentally, the one-to-many

               relationship is the most common and most ideal of the

               relationship types.  A many-to-many relationship exist

               between employee and job skill because on employee may

               have more than one skill and a job skill may be learned by








               many employees.  For example, an employee may be

               proficient as a programmer and a database designer and

               there may be more than one programmer in the company's

               workforce.  A one-to-one relationship is the most

               restrictive of these relationship types.  Note that in

               this case a store is managed by only one employee and an

               employee may manage only one store.

               ^M00:02:07

               [ Pause ]

               ^M00:02:18

               Furthermore, relationships have a name.  They exist

               between participant entities and they go in both

               directions.  In the relationship "a painter paints many

               paintings," there are two participating entities, painter

               and painting.  Note that the relationship is

               bi-directional.  In this case "paints" is the name of the

               relationship from painter to painting and "is painted by"

               is the relationship from painting to painter.  Another

               basic data model component is the constraint which is a

               restriction placed on the data.  For example, note the

               following restrictions.  A salary must be greater than

               zero and less than $350,000.  A GPA must be greater than

               or equal to zero and less than or equal to four using two

               decimal places.  A pilot cannot fly more than 10 hours








               during any 24 hour period.  As you can see a constraint

               may be placed on an attribute, an entity, or on

               relationships.  This concludes this presentation.













































