




               >> In this video we'll take a look at data models.  A good

               database design is the foundation for good applications.

               A good database model is the blueprint for the development

               of a solid database application.  Having a database design

               facilitates the communications among the many participants

               on the development of good database applications.  You

               cannot create a good design no matter astute your judgment

               without reference to a basic design framework and basic

               design building blocks.  Keep in mind that the same basic

               design components can create very different outcomes

               depending on how they are used.  Much depends on the

               judgments employed in the selection and use of those

               components.  That is why database design is said to be

               both an art and a science and that's why we'll examine

               data models as the foundation for database design.  Models

               in general are simplified abstractions of real world

               events or conditions.  People create models to better

               understand real world objects or ideas.  A data model is

               usually based on a graphic presentation.  Such a graphic

               representation portrays the facts, the data if you will,

               that may be assembled to describe real events, objects or

               ideas.  Let's properly define a data model.  A data model

               is the relatively simple representation, usually graphic,

               of facts that are used to describe real world events,









               objects, or ideas.  A data model shows what data are

               represented and how the data elements relate to each

               other.  The data model represents static characteristics

               such as relationships, constraints, and transformations.

               A database model is a set of logical constructs based on a

               data model that represents the data structure and the

               relationships found within a specific database.  For

               example, this Microsoft access illustration shows the data

               components and the relationships between them.  We'll

               examine these components and relationships later.  This

               concludes this presentation.































